it's been a while since i've had
depression
that's been
this debilitating um
one of the biggest issues i've struggled
with my entire life was depression and
some neuropsychiatric disorders it's
really difficult uh especially with uh
depression you
it's it kind of becomes normal for you
and you don't even realize like this
just isn't a proper state of being like
i just
have a hard time [ __ ] moving getting
out of bed thinking
and i think the problem is my gut health
and i think most people's depression is
directly linked with their gut health i
i guess it's time for a new sort of
strategy of dealing with this i took the
b12 because i was a little worried that
i was b12 deficient because i am getting
some psychotic symptoms which can happen
from a b12 deficiency okay so just
recently i had a really crazy trippy
mushroom experience and it totally
changed my whole
outlook on life and just how i am and
who i am as a person
and uh yeah and that just
got rid of my
sociopathy uh
i'm not a sociopath anymore uh i can
actually feel for other people now
uh when i see someone get hurt i can
actually feel bad for them yeah just
i don't have that intense hatred in me
anymore and uh that's pretty amazing
yeah that shroom experience just totally
[ __ ] changed me how is that
compassionate how is what they're doing
compassionate how is saying
not
shouldn't deserve to live i was saying i
was saying that babies like vegan gains
was a stomach baby to his effing blood
and pull
how is that
how is that compassionate i thought his
mushrooms would have chewed him of his
effing hatred but the mushrooms did you
crap on him because he's still
a
loser
i've talked about this a lot on my
channel i had really really severe
depression since i was very young like
around six years old i've had suicidal
tendencies and i also struggled with uh
hallucinations quite a bit i'd have
hallucinations almost every day after i
went vegan um the hallucinations almost
completely went away i'd only have about
one a week and i actually found out that
caffeine triggered hallucinations and uh
i did end up getting depressed recently
like a few months ago from you know a
bunch of life bull crap that was going
on but you know i practiced all those
things thinking positively making sure
my diet was on point working out a lot
now i feel pretty good right now after
being a community this is why i hate
about the vegan community or a vegan
community
come community
because a bunch of tall ass followers
who who go thankful make excuses
well this is why the world i take vegan
seriously
shout out to the musician thomas allen
he was the guy on the strings playing
subtly in the background during that
montage
if you don't know somebody like richard
one day
soon you will if you know 10 people if
you know 20 people one or two of them
are gonna have the same psychological
problem that richard has
that stems in the fact that
fundamentally we assign
in our own mind's eye in our own
imagination the relationship between
cause and effect
the difference between a beautiful
flower and a weed it is up to you and i
to decide you can cultivate a whole
garden full of dandelions just decide
the dandelions are the most beautiful of
flowers or you can cultivate a garden
full of roses and go around
exterminating the dandelions telling
yourself that they're an ugly weed that
you have to do without richard
experiences hallucination he experiences
visual hallucination he experiences
auditory hallucination meaning hearing
voices that aren't really there and he
also experiences classical
textbook
paranoid delusions meaning that he has
the fear that people are out to get him
he has the fear that people are trying
to kill him and to use two examples he's
given himself just when someone comes up
and shakes his hand just when someone
says hello and gives him a hug
he's gripped with the fear that they are
really trying to kill him now one
important and interesting question i've
raised about this in the past both
publicly and privately like i've said
this directly to richard back when he
and i were speaking was richard if you
knew someone else who had this list of
symptoms would you want them to have the
legal right to own and carry a firearm i
have asked him in effect do you think
that you should be a leader in a
political movement do you think that you
should be one of the most famous leaders
in the vegan movement and i was asking
my audience just the other day
if you were going to step on board an
airplane who would you want to be the
pilot of that airplane
the list of symptoms vegan gains has
given you right now
would or should disqualify him from
being a pilot it should make you
tremendously concerned to have your life
in his hands but there's another problem
here and if you don't have it your
brother or sister or one of your 10
closest friends will have it as you go
on in life and that is the struggle
of human beings to assign a relationship
of cause and effect between things in
the outside materially real world and
the inner
unreal world of the imagination of the
emotions of our so-called mental health
problems richard is someone who
throughout his life again and again has
reached out into the outside world and
tried to assign a cause to his psychosis
he has tried to assign a cause to his
depression he has tried to assign a
cause to his hallucinations and if he
can just convince himself in his own
imagination that he's found the cause
then by eliminating it from his diet by
eliminating it from his life he can
convince himself that he's found the
cure
and tragically as we've seen again and
again as he shuffled from one fad
ideology to the next this just isn't
true
the first cure he stumbled upon that
he's still committed to today for
ethical reasons is veganism he tried to
convince himself that his hallucinations
his depression his mood swings
all of his psychological abnormalities
could be cured would be cured must be
cured
through the vegan diet
why
let me just ask you
why would that work there's no known
mechanism whereby the vegan diet would
alleviate
chronic hallucinations there's no reason
why a vegan diet would alleviate
paranoid delusions the fear that people
are trying to kill you when they're not
trying to go
there's just no plausible scientific
explanations but
if there were
this would be one of the greatest
scientific discoveries of our time
in fact i would go so far as to say
richard if you really believe this you
should undertake a double-blind placebo
study even if there is just one subject
what do i mean by double blind
i mean you go for say two months
eating meals and you don't know yourself
whether they're vegan or not and then
you go for two months eating meals that
again
appear the same you don't know during
which period of time you're eating vegan
and which paradigm you're eating
non-vegan
and then compare
how your mental health outcomes really
if it were really true that everything
wrong with richard could be cured
through a vegan diet that would be a
remarkable discovery and we should try
to pin down what the nobody believes
that richard himself
as hard as he tries can't convince
himself of it or he can only believe it
for a short period of time before his
next depressive episode takes over
before he has his next hallucinatory
experience and these pretensions come
crashing to the ground another
interesting example of this pattern
is almost as old as his belief that
veganism cured the problem and thus
therefore that is hallucinations and
paranoia were caused by meat and that is
depression was in some sense caused by
me
he tried to convince himself that uh
caffeine
was the root of the problem now
caffeine is a potent mind-altering drug
but you know i've seen richard
unwittingly engage in a kind of
double-blind
placebo control truck because i have
seen richard
eat a whole bar
of dark vegan chocolate on camera
and you guys can look it up
vegan chocolate contains a whole lot of
caffeine compare how much you'd get
eating 100 grams
of dark vegan chocolate to having say a
cup of coffee
it's a significant amount of caffeine
the difference between vegan and
non-vegan chocolate is just that
non-vegan chocolate is heavily diluted
the amount of real chocolate the amount
of caffeine is less because the amount
of animal fat is more and other
ingredients like that but bitter
black
vegan chocolate that's a stiff dose of
caffeine and we've all seen him sitting
and eating significant amounts of
chocolate and having none of the
symptoms that he attributes to caffeine
again you could undertake very easily a
uh double-blind placebo control trial
you could put him through a period of
time where he's drinking coffee and he
himself doesn't know whether that's good
he can alternate every couple of days
you can see how that goes you could
monitor him under laboratory conditions
and establish or disestablish the
hypothesis that caffeine has anything to
do with his condition whatsoever now if
you've been watching his channel
you will have seen one crackpot theory
after another and sometimes he is
latched onto one personality after
another goji man oh oh there's this
youtuber goji man he's the answer to my
prayers he's discovered the secret he's
discovered the secret to alleviate my
depression oh oh no no there's this
medical doctor dr avi i can believe in
him he's the cure he's explained to me
the magic of ssris of prozac
he's going from one phony cure to the
next and guys
let me tell you
the real explanation is sitting here as
obvious as the nose on my face
what's wrong with richard regardless of
its ultimate origin or cause
is incurable
and it's only made worse
by his addiction
to making excuses
[Music]
this series of hypothetical experiments
seems too dangerous and too shocking to
you
let me just propose one more that has
never occurred to richard
richard
could it be that your depression is
either caused by or exacerbated by video
game addiction
why is it that among the myriad crackpot
cures you convinced yourself to try
among the various mind-altering drugs
you've tried why is it that it never
occurred to you once
to get out of your comfort zone take
your video game console and burn it quit
video games if not for a month than
forever
get some sense of ambition some sense of
direction in your life see to what
extent that
alleviates your depression makes it
worse or at least helps to bring about
what you were hoping magic mushrooms
would do for you
maybe would help you discover some kind
of path to becoming a better person
after vegan community this is why i hate
about the vegan community
[Music]